docs: SCIM provisioning (#7139)
Flagsmith/flagsmith: docs/docs/administration-and-security/access-control/scim.md

When your identity provider creates or updates a group through SCIM:

1. If no Flagsmith permission group with a matching external ID exists in the organisation, one is created with the
   display name and external ID from the SCIM request.
2. Group membership is synced to match the SCIM request: users are added or removed as needed.

When your identity provider deletes a group through SCIM:

1. All users are removed from the group.
2. The group is deleted from the organisation.

### Interaction with SAML group sync

If you have [SAML group sync](/administration-and-security/access-control/saml#using-groups-from-your-saml-idp)
configured, both SCIM and SAML will manage group membership. SCIM changes are applied as they arrive from your identity
provider. SAML group sync is applied at login time. The two mechanisms are complementary: SCIM keeps groups current
between logins, while SAML group sync acts as a reconciliation point at each login.

## Setup

### 1. Create a SCIM configuration

From the Flagsmith dashboard, click on your organisation name in the top left, then go to **Organisation Settings** >

> **SCIM**.

Reviewer: Again, this feels like nitpicking at this stage, but a couple of things here:

 1. Clicking on the organisation name in the top left actually does nothing (this is both a bug, and probably something we need to check for in the rest of the docs). Organisation settings now just live as one of the tabs in the top navigation underneath the organisation name. 
 2. Inside 'Organisation Settings', I think we should probably just rename the 'SAML' tab to 'SSO' and include SCIM as a new section here, instead of creating a new tab item in the root of Organisation settings.

8. Set the authentication mode to "HTTP Header" and paste your SCIM bearer token.
9. Click "Test Connector Configuration" to verify the connection, then save.
10. Still on the "Provisioning" tab, under "To App", enable: Create Users, Update User Attributes, and Deactivate Users.

### Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)

1. In the Entra admin centre, go to Enterprise Applications and find your Flagsmith application.
2. Go to "Provisioning" and click "Get started".
3. Set the provisioning mode to "Automatic".
4. Under "Admin Credentials", set the tenant URL to your Flagsmith SCIM base URL and the secret token to your SCIM
   bearer token.
5. Click "Test Connection" to verify, then save.
6. Under "Mappings", configure the user and group attribute mappings. Ensure `emails[type eq "work"].value` maps to the
   user's email address.
7. Set the provisioning status to "On" and save.

### OneLogin

1. In the OneLogin admin panel, go to Applications and find your Flagsmith application.
2. Go to "Configuration" and set the SCIM base URL and SCIM bearer token.
3. Go to "Provisioning" and enable provisioning.

> 4. Under "Entitlements", configure which users and groups should be pushed to Flagsmith.

Author: Not an expert, but my guts tell me including these is good SEO. SCIM setups are notoriously fiddly and specific integrations get searched for all the time. I feel like 9f3705bee is a good compromise.

### Users are not being provisioned

- Verify the SCIM base URL ends with `/api/v1/scim/v2/` (including the trailing slash).
- Verify the bearer token is correct. If in doubt, regenerate it.
- Check that the user's email address is included in the SCIM request. Flagsmith requires an email to create a user.

### Users are provisioned but cannot log in

SCIM only manages the user lifecycle (creating accounts, setting group membership). Users still need to authenticate
through your SSO provider. Verify that your SAML configuration is set up correctly.

### Group membership is not syncing

- Verify that the `externalId` in the SCIM group request matches the "External ID" on the corresponding Flagsmith
  permission group. If the group was created by SCIM, this is set automatically.
- If you are also using SAML group sync, note that SAML will re-sync group membership at each login. The two mechanisms
  are designed to work together, but if they use different group identifiers, they may conflict.

### Deprovisioned users still appear in the organisation

Check that your identity provider is sending a PATCH request with `active` set to `false`, or a DELETE request, when

> deprovisioning a user. Some identity providers require explicit configuration to send deprovisioning events.

Reviewer: As above

```suggestion
- Check that your identity provider is sending a PATCH request with `active` set to `false`, or a DELETE request, when deprovisioning a user. Some identity providers require explicit configuration to send deprovisioning events.
```

you do not need to manage users manually or wait for them to log in.

With SCIM, you can:

- Create Flagsmith users ahead of their first login, so they already have the right group memberships and permissions
  waiting for them.
- Remove users from your Flagsmith organisation when they are deprovisioned in your identity provider
- Sync group membership so that adding or removing a user from a group in your identity provider is reflected in
  Flagsmith automatically.

SCIM works alongside your existing SSO configuration. SSO handles authentication (how users log in), while SCIM handles
provisioning (which users and groups exist in Flagsmith, and who belongs to what).

## Prerequisites

- Your Flagsmith organisation must have an active Enterprise licence.
- You must have an SSO configuration (such as [SAML](/administration-and-security/access-control/saml)) set up for your
  organisation. SCIM manages the user and group lifecycle, but users still authenticate through your SSO provider.

## User lifecycle

When your identity provider provisions a user through SCIM:

> 1. If the user does not exist in Flagsmith, they are created with the email, first name and last name from the SCIM
>    request. They are added to the organisation as a regular user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If the user does not exist in Flagsmith, the user is created with the email, first name and last name from the SCIM
   request. The user is then added to the organisation as a regular user.
```
Preferring the user to "he" because of gender attribution. We are just mixing singular and plural :)

Author: See https://stylepedia.net/style/5.1/#gender-references.

> 2. If the user already exists (matched by email, case-insensitive), they are added to the organisation if they are not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If the user already exists (matched by email, case-insensitive), the user is added to the organisation if they are not
```

Author: Same as [here](https://github.com/Flagsmith/flagsmith/pull/7139#discussion_r3172829498).

between logins, while SAML group sync acts as a reconciliation point at each login.

## Setup

### 1. Create a SCIM configuration

From the Flagsmith dashboard, go to **Organisation Settings** > **SSO** > **SCIM**.

Click "Create SCIM Configuration". This generates a SCIM bearer token. Copy this token and store it securely. It is
shown only once and cannot be retrieved later. If you lose it, you can regenerate a new token from the same page.

### 2. Configure your identity provider

Add Flagsmith as a SCIM application in your identity provider. You will need:

- **SCIM base URL**: `https://flagsmith.example.com/api/v1/scim/v2/`, replacing `flagsmith.example.com` with your
  Flagsmith API domain. On Flagsmith SaaS, this is `https://api.flagsmith.com/api/v1/scim/v2/`.
- **Bearer token**: the token you copied in the previous step.

The exact steps depend on your identity provider. See the guides below for common providers.

### 3. Assign users and groups

In your identity provider, assign users and groups to the Flagsmith SCIM application. Your identity provider will begin
pushing these to Flagsmith immediately.

## Identity provider guides

:::note

> These guides were last verified in April 2026. If your identity provider's UI has changed, refer to their documentation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These guides were last verified in May 2026. If your identity provider's UI has changed, refer to their documentation
```

Author: 3ad3c7544aa5e0626907f8d189da36ebbf1a00c9

for the most up-to-date steps.

:::

### Okta

> 1. Open the Flagsmith application in the Okta admin dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Go to the "Applications" page and open the Flagsmith application.
```

Author: 3ad3c7544aa5e0626907f8d189da36ebbf1a00c9

2. Go to the "General" tab and click "Edit" under "App Settings".

> 3. Enable "SCIM provisioning" and click "Save".

Author: ```suggestion
3. Enable "Provisioning" and click "Save".
```

Author: 3ad3c7544aa5e0626907f8d189da36ebbf1a00c9

4. A new "Provisioning" tab will appear. Open it and click "Edit" under "SCIM Connection".
5. Set the SCIM connector base URL to your Flagsmith SCIM base URL.
6. Set the unique identifier field to `email`.
7. Under "Supported provisioning actions", enable: Push New Users, Push Profile Updates, and Push Groups.
8. Set the authentication mode to "HTTP Header" and paste your SCIM bearer token.
9. Click "Test Connector Configuration" to verify the connection, then save.
10. Still on the "Provisioning" tab, under "To App", enable: Create Users, Update User Attributes, and Deactivate Users.

### Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD)

1. In the Entra admin centre, go to Enterprise Applications and find your Flagsmith application.
2. Go to "Provisioning" and click "Get started".

> 3. Set the provisioning mode to "Automatic".

Author: note: Actually correct, see screenshot:

<img width="1272" height="244" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/04841936-b879-48c1-bd91-f3695b3a8f12" />

CC @emyller

2. Go to "Configuration" and set the SCIM base URL and SCIM bearer token.
3. Go to "Provisioning" and enable provisioning.
4. Under "Entitlements", configure which users and groups should be pushed to Flagsmith.

## SCIM API

Flagsmith implements a SCIM 2.0 API (RFC 7643, RFC 7644) with endpoints for managing users, groups, and discovering
service provider capabilities. The full API specification is available in the
[Swagger documentation](https://api.flagsmith.com/api/v1/docs/).

All SCIM endpoints are under `/api/v1/scim/v2/` and require a valid SCIM bearer token in the `Authorization` header. The
API supports filtering (e.g. `filter=userName eq "user@example.com"`) and pagination (`startIndex`, `count`) on list
endpoints as defined by the SCIM 2.0 specification.

## Managing SCIM tokens

You can view and manage SCIM configurations from **Organisation Settings** > **SSO** > **SCIM**. From this page you can:

- Regenerate a SCIM token. This invalidates the previous token immediately.
- Delete the SCIM configuration. This stops all SCIM provisioning for the organisation. Existing users and groups are

>   not removed.

Reviewer 2: I'd put this section before the identity provider guides ? To avoid overlooking it ?

Author: bfdad735abf56cee92cafb2dc576945a1515cebf
